[MUSIC]
In problem two, we are going to look
at combo charts in more detail.
We're being asked to analyze
the passenger volumes for
the Chicago to Seattle route in order to
determine whether a new competitor who
entered the market in March of
2015 has affected our sales.
Based on the results of our analysis,
the marketing department will be able to
decide whether or not it's necessary to
launch an expensive marketing
campaign to retain our customers.
We have been given a dataset with
the monthly passenger volumes
on the Chicago to Seattle route for
both 2014 and 2015.
Using this data, we're going to determine
whether the entry of a new competitor into
the market in March 2015 has effected
the overall passenger volumes.
To fully understand how this route has
been effected by the change of the market,
we're going to look at the difference
in passenger volumes between 2014 and
2015 on a monthly basis as well
as their cumulative differences,
since this will help us understand
the net effect of the changes as well
as reducing some of the noise
from the monthly data points.
Let's start this exercise by
completing the fields in column K and
L in the data table.
We will start with the difference
from 2014 in column K.
Click on cell K17 and
type equals followed by the volume of
passengers in 2015,
which can be found in cell D17.
Now, we want to decrease this
by the volume from 2014.
So, let's type minus followed by cell E17.
As we can see, there's only a slight
increase in the volume of passengers
between January 2014 and January 2015.
Now, let's copy this formula down
the column to get the deltas for
the rest of the months.
We can already see that there was
definitely a change in the overall trends
somewhere in April.
The passenger volumes were slightly
higher in 2015 than in 2014 for January,
February and March.
However, in April,
this train reversed and the passenger
volumes were a lot lower than the previous
year for the remaining months.
It definitely looks like the new
competitor affected our passenger volumes.
So let's finish with our
cumulative difference, so
that we can start plotting these values.
The cumulative difference in the first
month of 2015 is going to be equal to
difference in cell K17.
So, let's select L17 and type equals K17.
Now for the second month, the formula
is going to be slightly different.
The cumulative difference for
the current month is going to be equal
to the cumulative difference from
the previous month plus the volume
difference for the current month.
This means we're going to select cell
L18 and type equals followed by L17.
The cumulative difference
from the previous month and
then plus followed by K18, the volume
difference for the current month.
This formula applies for
the remaining months of the year, so
let's copy it down the table.
As we can see, the cumulative difference
in passenger volumes went up in
the beginning of the year, but
started decreasing in April and
went negative the following month.
Now that we have our data and
already see some worrying trends,
let's focus on how we're going to
present this analysis to our audience.
We want to create a chart that allows
us to show both monthly differences in
passenger volumes, as well as
the cumulative difference over the year.
This type of data is best
shown using a Combo Chart
as we discussed in an earlier video.
We're going to start by selecting the two
sets of data that we want to plot,
which is going to be the data in columns
K and L that we just filled out.
Note that we're not including the route
information since this is constant across
our data points and
wouldn't be adding anything to the chart.
So let's go ahead and select the two
columns with the monthly difference and
cumulative difference in passenger volume,
making sure we select
the headers of our dataset.
Once the data selected,
let's navigate to the Insert tab on
the Excel ribbon where we're going to
click on the Combo Chart button and
then click on the create
custom Combo Chart option.
We want the monthly differences to
be plotted as a clustered column
chart whereas we want the cumulative
differences to be plotted as
a line chart to show
the trends over the year.
The data points for
the cumulative differences
go from positive 5,000 to negative 24,000,
but the data points for
the monthly differences only go from
positive 800 to negative 4,000.
So, it doesn't make sense to
plot them on the same axis.
Hence, we're going to select the check
box for the secondary axis for
the cumulative differences.
Now that we have provided
all the required input,
let's select OK to create our Combo Chart.
We can see on this chart that something
happened in the March to April time frame
that completely changed the trend for
the passenger volumes.
Now the question is how
can we make it easier for
our audience to draw the same
conclusion from this data?
As discussed in the previous sessions of
this course, we can improve our chart by
formatting it to emphasis the story
that we are trying to tell.
Let's start by changing
the title of the chart.
To do this, we're going to
select the placeholder text and
replace it with O'Hare, O-R-D to Seattle,
SEA Passenger Variance from 2014 to 2015.
Next, we're going to adjust
the positioning of the axis labels.
Let's right-click on the Y-axis and
select Format Axis from the menu.
In the pop-up window,
expand the labels category.
Click on the label position drop-down and
select low.
Once we close this pop-up,
we can see the adjustment.
We also want to make sure our axis have
titles to make the chart easier to read.
Since there are currently no axis titles,
we're going to need to add
a chart element to our chart.
So, let's click on our chart and
navigate to the design tab on
the ribbon where we click on
the Add Chart Element button.
We want to add axis titles, so
let's select that from the menu,
then we are going to click on the Primary
Horizontal and Primary Vertical options.
Note that this chart has
two vertical axis, so
let's make sure we also add
the secondary vertical axis.
Next, we are going to add
each of the axis titles.
Lets start by selecting
the place order text for
the horizontal axis and
replacing it with month.
Next, we'll do the title for
the axis on the left side of the graph.
So, let's go ahead and
select the placeholder text and
replace it with 2014 to 2015 variants.
Finally, let's select the placeholder text
for the final vertical axis title and
replace it with 2014 to
2015 cumulative variants.
We're going to add data labels
by clicking on the chart and
navigating to the design tab again.
Let's click on
the Add Chart Element button.
Select Data Labels and
click on More Data Options.
As you can see, there are multiple
layer options available to us.
We're going to select the Outside End
as the label position and
then we close the pop-up window.
Since the chart is kind of small,
the labels are a bit hard to read.
So, lets make the chart slightly larger by
clicking on the border of the chart and
using the corner to re size it.
Generally, grid lines are not necessary
when data labels are displayed.
So let's go ahead and
remove them from the chart since it
will provide a cleaner look, and view.
We're going to do this by
clicking on the graph and
selecting the plus button
on the top right side.
This brings up the chart elements menu
where we are going to unselect the grid
lines option.
Our graph answers the question
asked by the CEO.
The entry of a competitor
into the market in March
of 2015 clearly impacted our
passenger volumes negatively.
This chart can now be used by the
marketing department to build a business
case for creating an aggressive marketing
campaign to retain our customers.
After creating a graph, always revisit
the masses that you're trying to convey.
This graph shows the passenger
difference throughout the year and
a bar graph, and
a commuter difference in a line graph.
Does the graph show a correlation with
the competitor's entry into the market?
It does.
Remember though,
take the findings with a grain of salt.
Though there may be a correlation,
we cannot say for
certain that the competitor's entry is
the cause for the passenger variance.
In this video,
you'll learn how to create a Combo Chart.
Now, it's your turn to practice
what you just learned.
Go to the student workbook to
complete the next exercise.
[MUSIC]